Add a document to outline the steps to create an iteration (#133)
canonical-webteam/practices: project-management/iteration-creation.md

---
title: Iteration creation
description: These are the steps to follow when creating a new iteration
---

## Create a milestone

Go to your squads repo and create a milestone titled: Iteration {number}-{week} {date from} - {date to} for example: Iteration 18-47 20th November - 3rd December.

## Create a small task epic

Create a new epic on the squad repo and attach it to the new milestone.

## Set up the backlog

> Firstly, rename the sections of the backlog from `Current iteration:` to `Previous iteration`. Then rename `Next iteration` to `Current iteration`. Then create a new row titled `Next iteration` below `Current iteration.

Reviewer: I think you should use quote here instead of backticks. Backticks are for code. Also, you're missing a closing backtick at the end.

---
title: Iteration creation
description: These are the steps to follow when creating a new iteration
---

## Before the iteration starts
### Create a milestone

> Go to your squads repo and create a milestone titled: Iteration {number}-{week} {date from} - {date to} for example: Iteration 18-47 20th November - 3rd December.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to your squad's repo and create a milestone titled: 

Iteration `{number}`-`{week}` `{date from}` - `{date to}` 

For example: "Iteration 18-47 20th November - 3rd December."
```

### Create a small task epic

Create a new epic on the squad repo and attach it to the new milestone.

### Set up the backlog

Populate the "Proposed iteration" area in the backlog spreadsheet with high-level rows describing work for the upcoming iteration

> Move all incomplete epics down from the "Previous iteration" to the "Current iteration" section. Apart from the small tasks epic. Instead reassign all small tasks to the new small tasks in this iteration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Move all incomplete epics down from the "Previous iteration" to the "Current iteration" section. Apart from the small tasks epic. Instead, reassign all small tasks to the new small tasks in this iteration.
```

### Create epics for every proposed backlog item

Title the epic the same as the title in the backlog. Assign them to the appropriate milestone.

> Create and estimate broken down tasks for each epic in the next milestone. Assign them to the appropriate next milestone and set their pipeline to "Triaged".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create and then estimate tasks, once they are broken down, for each epic in the next milestone. Assign them to the appropriate next milestone and set their pipeline status to "Triaged".
```

## At the start of the iteration

Rename the sections of the backlog from "Current iteration:" to "Previous iteration". Then rename "Next iteration" to "Current iteration". Then create a new row titled "Next iteration" below "Current iteration".

This should result in the "Previous iteration" being 100% complete. You may now hide the iteration rows.

> Pull up the epics that are proitised from this iteration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pull up the epics that are prioritised from this iteration.
```

Be sure to check the "sum" cells are set currently.

Hide the content of the completed iteration.

Ensure all rows are correctly broken into issues with estimations.

Check the number of points in the new iteration are achievable, if not, remove or add rows. This will inform the squad how much they take on as small tasks.

> ### Assinging issues to small tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Assigning issues to small tasks
```

> Once you have completed you planning and know how many points you can still take on in the iteration. Scroll though the Triaged pipeline and choose a number of high, medium and low issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have completed your planning and know how many points you can still take on in the iteration, scroll through the Triaged pipeline and choose a number of high, medium and low issues.
```

> I would suggest a ratio of 3 high, 2 medium and 1 small.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A suggested ratio might be 3 high, 2 medium and 1 small.
```

Reviewer 2: We don't typically attribute an author to docs so I've changed this to remove the first person tense.

> This allows for a curn of low priority issues to be resolved reguarly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows for a churn of low priority issues to be resolved regularly.
```

### Assign the milestone to the epic and cards

> Once you have organised the backlog and you know which epics you are taking on. Highlight each epic and move them to the "Iteration epics" pipeline and assign the newly created milestone. You can then show all cards for this epic via the board view. Select each issue and move them to the "Current iteration" pipeline and also assign them to the milestone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have organised the backlog and you know which epics you are taking on, highlight each epic and move them to the "Iteration epics" pipeline and assign the newly created milestone. You can then show all cards for this epic via the board view. Select each issue and move them to the "Current iteration" pipeline and also assign them to the milestone.
```

---
title: Iteration creation
description: These are the steps to follow when creating a new iteration
---

## Before the iteration starts
### Create a milestone

Go to your squad's repo and create a milestone titled: 

> Iteration `{number}`-`{week}` `{date from}` - `{date to}` 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Iteration `{YY}`-`{week}` `{date from}` - `{date to}` 
```

For example: "Iteration 18-47 20th November - 3rd December."

### Create a small task epic

> Create a new epic on the squad repo and attach it to the new milestone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create a new epic on the squad repo and attach it to the new milestone. Usually in the format "Small Tasks: Iteration {YY}-{week}"
```

### Set up the backlog

Populate the "Proposed iteration" area in the backlog spreadsheet with high-level rows describing work for the upcoming iteration

> Move all incomplete epics down from the "Previous iteration" to the "Current iteration" section. Apart from the small tasks epic. Instead, reassign all small tasks to the new small tasks in this iteration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Move all incomplete epics down from the "Previous iteration" to the "Current iteration" section. Apart from the small tasks epic. Instead, reassign all small tasks from the previous iteration to the new small tasks epic in this iteration.
```

### Create epics for every proposed backlog item

> Title the epic the same as the title in the backlog. Assign them to the appropriate milestone.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create epics in the appropriate squad's repo (e.g. ubuntudesign/web-squad) and title the epic the same as the title in the backlog. Assign them to the appropriate milestone.
```

> Create and then estimate tasks, once they are broken down, for each epic in the next milestone. Assign them to the appropriate next milestone and set their pipeline status to "Triaged".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Create and then estimate tasks in the appropriate repo for the work (e.g. canonical-websites/jp.ubuntu.com), once they are broken down, for each epic in the next milestone. Assign them to the appropriate next milestone and set their pipeline status to "Triaged".
```
